# The Crown in his Head
**Project Description**

The Crown in his Head is an interactive sound piece in which the user assumes the role of the prince of a kingdom in ruin, who finds himself in search of three magical gems in a village. Deliberately, the piece never clarifies if the kingdom, and the role of prince, are indeed real. The users have to interact with the piece to progress through the different parts of the story, which is implemented in the form of a questline that motivates the user to move through the different spaces in the fictional village. Although the questline serves as a predefined path for the user to eventualy explore all the areas of the village, the user is also able to explore and freely roam through the spaces. The experience ends once the user has collected the three gems through the questline.

**Process**

We started by defining the elements that would turn an exclusively auditive experience into a spatial one. We settled on two types: graphical elements like a map and the ability to move through clicking on the arrows, and auditive elements such as soundscapes in order to delimit different spaces in the experience. Then, we decided to keep two modes of interaction: we built a storyline that links the different spaces together, yet we still enabled free movement for the user to explore the different soundscapes. Within the story, we needed a way in which the user felt they were part of the experience. However, the user can't talk to the characters in the story. In order to give the user a more active role in the story, without having to generate a large quantity of branching content, we decided the character of the user would not have a voice, and instead the user would 'say' the dialogue by clicking on a button. This came with the added benefit of letting the users go through the story at their own pace: the audio files of the dialogues only play when prompted by the user, generating feedback similar to conversation. Then, we came to an issue: if we let the character move freely while a conversation is happening, it will interrupt the story. We decided to hide the map and the movement arrows while a conversation was happening, which also achieved the added effect of increasing the user's focus. 

In terms of sound design, we generated nine different soundscapes, one for each space in the village, and recorded dialogues of the eight characters. A major challenge was to adjust the gain levels on each - the sounds couldn't be combined in one single file because they were supposed to be layered and prompted by the user. This layering process made some of the resulting sounds very complex, and required a lot of trial and error to balance. As a result of the complex soundscapes, we also decided to keep the aesthetics of the website as simple as possible, in order for the user to concentrate in the sound instead.

**Evaluation**

The project seemed too ambitious at first, and we're very positively surprised with the end result. It required us to put an extra amount of effort, but it eneded up being a product that surpassed our initial expectations. There are some details in terms of sound quality and voice acting that could be polished, but the story and implementation make up for them.

<sub>_(special thanks from Juan to all the people who lent their voices at unholy hours of the night)_</sub>
